Hello and welcome back to the course on block chain.
We're talking about a very interesting concept called the Byzantine fault tolerance.
It's a very important characteristic not only for block chains but also for any type of decentralized
system.
So let's have a look.
The story goes that a long long time ago there was a castle which the Byzantine Empire wanted to attack
and take over.
It's a made up story actually looked into it and I think they just used the name Byzantine Generals
rather than I don't think is leading to any specific story if you know a story would be know.
But nevertheless one way or another there's these four generals surrounding a castle and they want to
attack it can be more than four it can be any number of generals.
We're going to look at an example of for they want to attack it.
But the thing is they can only win if the majority of them come to a consensus of what to do in fact
whether they attack or retreat.
They the majority of these generals have to come to a agreement a consensus on what they're doing is
if they say if in this case three out of four say we're attacking and they're attacked they'll win three
of our four say we're retreating and they retreat fails they'll be all safe and fine.
However if they have chaos and they don't come to consensus they will be destroyed by the enemy.
And that's that's that's how the problem is stance.
And so among his generals there is one who is the main general commander of this army.
And at the same time there's also a trader.
So they don't know who are these generals is.
They could be a traitor.
They might not be a traitor but they could be.
Usually there is.
And so they don't know who the traitor is and he's there to put some you know like roadblocks in their
way so that they actually don't come to a consensus.
So the question is how do they come up with an algorithm.
How do they come up with a protocol a consensus protocol like that running a bit ahead of ourselves
into the next tutorial here but how do they come up with an algorithm that will help them come to a
decision despite there being a traitor.
So let's have a look.
They can communicate with each other but they can only deliver oral messages so they can write a paper
and pass it around them.
And so basically that's how they can communicate.
And then let's say for example in this case let's say that this general here is the traitor.
There he is.
So what happens is the commander issues the order.
By the way the commander himself could be a traitor.
That's also something they have to keep in mind because if the commander was not the traitor for sure
they would just follow their commanders orders and that's it.
But the commander could be a traitor or so from the perspective of any one of the generals and say look
if you're like this general over here you don't know who out of the three is a traitor and you don't
know who to trust so you have to follow a and an algorithm that everybody agreed to in advance in order
for this to work.
And that's that's a question.
So what is the algorithm and what the algorithm is the one that's proposed in the research paper that
solve this problem by the way.
It sounds very trivial but it's actually a very complex problem.
Well it is a very very complex problem.
It's a complex problem and there's a quite a in-depth mathematical proof to it which includes you know
one of the prior one of the you know specific cases is when there's four generals but they proved for
any number of generals and then we'll see what the answer is just at the end.
But for now the algorithm that they're going to be using is they're going to just look at the majority
of the messages that they get and they're going to base their decision on that.
So let's have a look.
So the main general issue is or let's say his order is attack.
It could be either it doesn't really matter attack or retreat.
Let's remember that as long as they like the majority of them agree on what to do rather than attack
or they don't have to attack they can all agree on retreating slowly fine as well.
But in this case he issues an order to attack.
We can get rid of these other arrows that are pointing back to the manger because they don't don't matter.
He he issues an order and in this case he's not the traitor.
We'll have a look at when he's a traitor just now.
But he's made up his mind.
He doesn't really need to know what they're saying now is between them to decide.
What are they going to do with this order.
You know like they don't know is he the traitor is not the traitor.
So what they've agreed is we're going to relay what the general said to everybody else and they will
take the majority of the vote.
So the trader being the traitor of course what he says is the general told me to attack to retreat.
You know the three green arrows mean attack red arrows of energy.
The general told me to retreat.
So he says this goes to these two general told me to retreat.
Then next one this guy this general says to everybody the general told me to attack because he is just
saying what the generals.
And then this one says the General told me to attack too.
And so now can they come to a consensus.
The question is can we agree on something.
Well if you look at the majority of decisions the journal is already made up his mind the commander
so he's attacking because he's issued that order.
But let's look at these ones.
This general got one red arrow and two green arrows is going to say I'm attacking you.
And then this one got one Green Arrow two Green Arrow one red arrow is attacking.
And we don't care what the trader decides because he's a traitor and because we already have the majority
and says so by based on that algorithm they came up with the they came to consensus.
They more than half of them have or are going to attack and so they will take this castle they will
win.
So I think if they had the general said we're all retreating same thing would have happened.
They would all just retreat.
So they would come to consensus.
So that's the case when one of the lieutenants or one of the non commanding generals is a traitor.
Let's have a look at the case when this is quite fun.
Let's have a look at the case when the main generals the traitor.
So will this algorithm work.
That's the question.
So the commander is a traitor What can he do.
He can tell everybody to you know do the same thing right if he tells everybody to attack.
Well that would be quite silly of him because then they would just tell each other to attack and they
would attack and they would take the castle right.
There would be consensus.
Same thing retreats you tell em which retreat they just retreat.
And again they went so they solve the problem.
So what's the only way you can mess things up is he can actually tell two of them to attack like these
two.
And one of them to retreat and then see if that messes things up for the army.
So what they do again is they just relay what you heard from the general.
This one says General told me to attack this one says General told me to treat this on says General
told me to attack.
And now let's see if they got the consensus.
So here they've got one to two or three so he's he's attacking He's attacking the two arrows and one
red one this was also a two green arrows one red.
So in this case as well they are going to attack or it could have been retreat of general issued to
read orders one grain order.
Then there were the three of them would retreat and the army would be safe.
So as you can see what this is showing is that there's this Byzantine Generals problem and then there's
this algorithm of taking the majority of the conveyed information or relayed information and acting
upon that basing your decision on that.
And that algorithm is Byzantine fault tolerant.
The question is how what to what level is it tolerant of to what level is that tolerance.
So the question is what if we had two traders in this army and then in the case of two traitors You
can try it for yourself.
There's no way that they would succeed.
There's no there's no solution to this problem.
If there's two traitors say and basically And then what they did in the paper they proved that they
methodically prove that for for instance for this algorithm to work you have to have no more than 30
percent no more than 33 percent trade.
So one third of the army cannot or the generals cannot be more than one third cannot be traitor.
So if you have you know a hundred generals and they're all deciding orlicí you have 10 generals and
they're all deciding if four of them are traitors then that's it you're not going to win if three of
them are traitors then this algorithm works.
And so that is the level of tolerance of this system in the sense of traitors.
Now how does this go back to you know block chain or or other like other systems that are decentralized
more technological system.
The thing there is that for instance in the block chain what happens we might have somebody trying to
attack the system and we need to come up with a consensus protocol like an algorithm like that these
generals came up with we need to come up with a consensus Fergal which we're talking about in the next
tutorial which will allow us to protect the system from traders or from people trying to attack it and
so on and we want to make it as tolerant as possible so we want to make sure that you know it's stolen
not only just to one attack or two or three or five.
So as tolerant as possible that's what.
That's the whole concept of why it time for tolerance.
And this notion is actually used not just Fluxion as we mentioned at the start of a tutorial it's actually
used in many different places for examples used in airplanes because you might you have all these systems
talking to each other all these old measurements coming through from different gauges and so on.
And what if one or two of them fail you can just have the whole airplane crash just because one engine
heat monitor failed and is telling us the wrong thing.
So that in that case you know you have the airplane flying it's and the generals actually were present
different components of the circuits of the airplane everything's working fine and then all of a sudden
one of them fails.
Part of the main computer phase or the heat sensor on the engine or the windspeed meet or something
something fails the whole airplane is still has to keep going.
And so that's called Byzantine fault tolerance it has to be it has to have that characteristic of Byzantine
fault tolerance is also used in nuclear power plugs used in rockets.
You know the highest space station has specific requirements for rockets that want to dock with it.
To which extent are they Byzantine fault tolerant.
Because there's so many factors that could jam the computers of the docking the shuttle or whatever
it is and then will just destroy the whole station for instance like there's already radiation which
could destroy the memory or the jam the circuits of the docking rocket and or just smash the whole ISIS
station and you know people could die and that's billions of dollars.
You know you even if there's no people involved.
And so yeah so that's where buys and time fault always comes in.
So it's a huge concept even though it looks very simple and very kind of like airy fairy about some
generals in the Byzantine Empire.
It's actually a huge huge thing in terms of decentralized systems with space and systems with lots and
lots of components and blockin is just one of them and we'll talk more about this allocation in box
in next tutorial.
But for now if you'd like to learn more there's the original paper the Byzantine Generals problem from
1982 by Lamport Szostak and pee's.
Interesting paper.
Not very technical but there is some like a logical mathematical proofs if you'd like to go through
it.
And then there is a blog if you don't want to go through all the mathematics and this paper.
Again it's more logic rather than mathematics.
It's actually quite fun if you don't want to go through all the mathematics then you can just check
out the blog.
It's called Understanding block chain fundamentals.
Part one buys Einstein for tolerance by George's constant topless and it's an medium links.
Here is also in the notes for this course.
All right.
Hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and picked up some new information on bye's and Tydfil torrents.
And yeah I'll see you in the next tutorial.
Until then enjoy.